Reddit r/nyu - Worries About Tandon
Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/nyu/comments/g6xa4t/worries_about_tandon/
Original Post
I'll be attending Tandon in the Fall and while I feel comfortable with my major, I feel uncertain about
Tandon in general. My worries are: (1) The quality of professors will be mediocre - I'm worried they
won't care or can't teach well. (2) The quality of the material and curriculum will be mediocre - I feel
students learning math or science at CAS will be given a deeper understanding than at Tandon. (3) The
likelihood of getting an internship at an amazing company (Google, SpaceX, Apple, etc.) will be very
low. (4) People think Tandon is mediocre and that will hinder me getting a job. After going through old
Reddit posts I read bad things that worry me. I'm hoping someone can refute some or all of these.
Comments
OmoideAeternum:
I'm not a Tandon student but have several friends there. Tandon has been improving ever since Poly
was encompassed by NYU; older posts don't capture how much has changed. NYU is dedicating a big
portion of its budget to the Metrotech campus. Professor quality varies - check course evaluations and
RateMyProfessor. Curriculum is pretty standard; it may not be as theory-based as CAS but fulfills an
engineering curriculum. Tandon has its own networking event and big companies scout it (even
Microsoft). Going to Tandon won't hinder you - the NYU name will get your foot in the door.
DangerousEmployment4 (Tandon student):
When Polytechnic was bought by NYU, they kept 50% of the professors, so half aren't really 'NYU'
caliber. The only really good profs are in the math department, but they're hired through Courant. A lot
of profs have an 'if I'm not getting paid to do this I won't' personality. Point 2 is incorrect - Tandon
students aren't allowed to take CAS classes while CAS kids can enroll at Tandon, because Tandon's
rigor is harder (physics is taught to Mech E and Aero majors so it goes more in depth). I got an
internship at one of the companies you named after 2 WEEKS of school as a freshman. People don't
think Tandon is mediocre - most employers don't even know it exists; the NYU name does wonders.
fancyeggbeater:
I disagree with point 2. You're allowed to take 16 credits outside of Tandon, and if you declare a
cross-school minor like a CAS minor, that 16-credit limit no longer applies.
GreenOrdinary (Tandon student):
There are good and bad professors everywhere. If you're eager to learn and reach out to the professor,
you get a lot more out of the course. The math and science are catered to engineering majors so
they're pretty in depth. I completely disagree on internships - I and many others have gotten internships
at Google, Facebook, Apple, etc. This year I got offers from three large companies as an average
student. Companies see NYU; they won't care that you went to Tandon over CAS. I loved my
experience here.
throwaway_tan (grad student):
Generally agree with others, but choose carefully with some professors, especially the older ones. The
new hires seem generally good, but some older professors are some of the worst I've ever had.
tandonthrowaway22:
Getting better with new hires. Tandon is actually harder. I have friends who got internships with MSFT.
Employers just see NYU's name. You need to ask yourself if you're okay not going to Washington
Square and getting a different experience than the rest of NYU.
CollarlessWave:
There are good professors - you'll have to ask around and go on RateMyProfessor. I hear the physics
and CBE departments are awful, but CS is OK. Math was easier for me at Tandon vs CAS because
Tandon emphasizes application over theory. Internships depend mostly on you. Tandon is a little
mediocre - the quality of students and professors at CAS is higher - but it's what you make of it.